Preprocessing of metadata (#16)
MrLongbottom/P10-Article: sections/appendix/categories.tex

\subsection{Metadata labels}\label{sec:appendix_meta_data}

\subsubsection{Category}\label{subsec:appendix_category}

Here are the $58$ different categories, which make up all the category labels present within the dataset.

> Categories with fewer than 139 documents ($0.1$ of number of documents), are removed as part of preprocessing, and replaced with a single misc category 'misc'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Categories with fewer than 139 documents ($0.1$ of the number of documents) are removed as part of preprocessing and replaced with a single misc category 'misc'.
```

> This reduces the amount of categories to $34$, while only replacing 292 document's categories to 'misc'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This reduces the number of categories to $34$, while only replacing 292 document categories with 'misc'.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This reduces the number of categories to $34$, while only replacing 292 documents to have the 'misc' category.
```

		Kram & 244 & Feature & 188 & Thisted-net* & 3 & WEEKEND & 1493\\
		Navne & 3749 & Morsø-avis & 5959 & DF Licitation Diverse* & 4 & Erhverv-avis & 7356\\
		Brønderslev-net* & 1 & Aalborg-avis & 5544 & Oplandsavisen* & 6 & Biler* & 13\\
		Fælles & 20204 & Mariagerfjord-avis & 7241 & Morsø Sport & 2350 & Sport-net* & 3\\
		Bo Godt & 1447 & Erhvervsnavne* & 39 & Debat & 10075 & Frieord & 1341\\
		RB* & 3 & Hanbo-bladet* & 2 & Lokalavisen* & 1 & Indsigt & 984\\
		Samfund* & 9 & Morsø Debat & 1375 & Sport-avis & 10941 & Kultur & 3012 \\
		53. Frederik & 203 & DF Søfart* & 32 & Bagside & 1933 & Morsø-net* & 1 \\
		Frederikshavn-avis & 4325 & Nordjyske Biler & 1400 & Østvendsyssel Avis* & 4 & Aalborg:nu* & 73\\
		Perspektiv & 613 & Brønderslev-avis & 3857 & Rebild-avis & 4415 & Brugermappe* & 1\\
		Thisted-avis & 11473 & DF Motor Biler* & 3 & Nyhedsmotoren-net* & 3 & Morsø Ugeavis* & 27\\
		Jammerbugt-avis & 3791 & MitLiv & 1519 & Newspack* & 35 & DF Licitation Byggeri* & 14\\
		Mariagerfjord-net* & 1 & Hjørring-avis & 4235 & Friii & 2333 & Vesthimmerland-avis & 5131\\
		Plus Publicering* & 3 & Nordjyske Plus* & 6 & & & & \\
		\bottomrule
	\end{tabular}

> 	\caption{Amount of documents with each category within the Nordjyske dataset from 2017 to 2019. Categories marked with * are removed as part of metadata preprocessing.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	\caption{Amount of documents with each category within the Nordjyske dataset from 2017 to 2019. 
	Categories marked with * are removed as part of metadata preprocessing.}
```

	\label{tab:category_table}
\end{table*}

\subsubsection{Author}\label{subsec:appendix_author}

> Unlike with Categories, the Author metadata field does not a have a natural cut off points, with a good amount of values in a specific lower range, followed by more evenly distributed numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike with Categories, the Author metadata field does not have a natural cut-off point, with a good amount of values in a specific lower range, followed by more evenly distributed numbers.
```

> Instead a vast majority of the values fall in a lower range, meaning that setting too high a cut off point, will result in removing a large portion of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, the vast majority of the values fall in a lower range, meaning that setting too high a cut-off point, will result in removing a large portion of the data.
```

> Instead we choose a lower cut off point, keeping most of the authors, except the ones that contained so few documents, that finding common topics would be inefficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We instead choose a lower cut-off point, keeping most of the authors, except the ones that contained so few documents, that finding common topics would be inefficient.
```

> Authors who have written less that $14$ documents ($0.01\%$ of the number of documents) are removed as part of preprocessing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authors, who have written less than $14$ documents, ($0.01\%$ of the number of documents) are removed as part of preprocessing.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Authors, who have written less than $14$ documents ($0.01\%$ of the number of documents), are removed as part of preprocessing.
```

	\end{subfigure}
	\caption{Histogram over amount authors who have written certain number of documents, before and after preprocessing. Authors in the x-axis are grouped into 50 buckets.}
	\label{fig:author_hist}
\end{figure*}

\begin{figure*}[ht]
	\centering
	\begin{subfigure}{0.45\textwidth}
		\centering
		\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/author_box_before.png}
		\caption{Before preprocessing}
		\label{fig:author_box_before}
	\end{subfigure}
	\begin{subfigure}{0.45\textwidth}
		\centering
		\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/author_box_14.png}
		\caption{After preprocessing}
		\label{fig:auhtor_box_after}
	\end{subfigure}
	\caption{Boxplot over the amount of documents written by authors.}
	\label{fig:author_box}
\end{figure*}

\subsubsection{Taxonomy}\label{subsec:appendix_taxonomy}
Taxonomy is fundamentally different from the other metadata fields, in this paper.
It is not fully observed with only roughly $25\%$ of documents having a taxonomy field.
It is hierarchical, with each taxonomy containing a sequence of sub-taxonomies, such as: 'STEDER/Danmark/Nordjylland/Aalborg'.
It is also possible for each document to have multiple taxonomy sequences.

> For preprocessing we remove any sub-taxonomy that is used in less that $4$ taxonomy sequences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We remove any sub-taxonomy that is used in less than $4$ taxonomy sequences.
```

\subsection{Metadata labels}\label{sec:appendix_meta_data}

\subsubsection{Category}\label{subsec:appendix_category}

Here are the $58$ different categories, which make up all the category labels present within the dataset.

> Categories with fewer than 139 documents ($0.1$ of the number of documents) are removed as part of preprocessing and replaced with a single misc category 'misc'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Categories with fewer than 139 documents ($0.1$ of the number of documents) are removed as part of preprocessing and replaced with a single miscellaneous category 'misc'.
```

This reduces the amount of categories to $34$, while only replacing 292 document's categories to 'misc'.
This preprocessing also makes the size of the remaining categories much more evenly distributed, as can be seen in \autoref{fig:category_hist}.

\begin{figure*}[ht]
	\centering
	\begin{subfigure}{0.45\textwidth}
		\centering
		\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/category_hist2_before.png}
		\caption{Before preprocessing}
		\label{fig:category_hist_before}
	\end{subfigure}
	\begin{subfigure}{0.45\textwidth}
		\centering
		\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/category_hist2_140.png}
		\caption{After preprocessing}
		\label{fig:category_hist_after}
	\end{subfigure}

> 	\caption{Histogram over amount of categories different number of documents, before and after preprocessing. Categories in the x-axis are grouped into 50 buckets.}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	\caption{Histogram over the number of categories for different number of documents, before and after preprocessing.
	Categories on the x-axis are grouped into 50 buckets.}
```

		Navne & 3749 & Morsø-avis & 5959 & DF Licitation Diverse* & 4 & Erhverv-avis & 7356\\
		Brønderslev-net* & 1 & Aalborg-avis & 5544 & Oplandsavisen* & 6 & Biler* & 13\\
		Fælles & 20204 & Mariagerfjord-avis & 7241 & Morsø Sport & 2350 & Sport-net* & 3\\
		Bo Godt & 1447 & Erhvervsnavne* & 39 & Debat & 10075 & Frieord & 1341\\
		RB* & 3 & Hanbo-bladet* & 2 & Lokalavisen* & 1 & Indsigt & 984\\
		Samfund* & 9 & Morsø Debat & 1375 & Sport-avis & 10941 & Kultur & 3012 \\
		53. Frederik & 203 & DF Søfart* & 32 & Bagside & 1933 & Morsø-net* & 1 \\
		Frederikshavn-avis & 4325 & Nordjyske Biler & 1400 & Østvendsyssel Avis* & 4 & Aalborg:nu* & 73\\
		Perspektiv & 613 & Brønderslev-avis & 3857 & Rebild-avis & 4415 & Brugermappe* & 1\\
		Thisted-avis & 11473 & DF Motor Biler* & 3 & Nyhedsmotoren-net* & 3 & Morsø Ugeavis* & 27\\
		Jammerbugt-avis & 3791 & MitLiv & 1519 & Newspack* & 35 & DF Licitation Byggeri* & 14\\
		Mariagerfjord-net* & 1 & Hjørring-avis & 4235 & Friii & 2333 & Vesthimmerland-avis & 5131\\
		Plus Publicering* & 3 & Nordjyske Plus* & 6 & & & & \\
		\bottomrule
	\end{tabular}
	\caption{Amount of documents with each category within the Nordjyske dataset from 2017 to 2019. 

> 	Categories marked with * are removed as part of metadata preprocessing.}

Reviewer 2: Tabellen på main er opdateret så den er sorteret. Om vi bruger fed markering, eller * må vi lige vurdere senere.

Author: ja, vi skal nok bare beholde den på main og så markere bagefter.

Instead, the vast majority of the values fall in a lower range, meaning that setting too high a cut-off point, will result in removing a large portion of the data.
We instead choose a lower cut-off point, keeping most of the authors, except the ones that contained so few documents, that finding common topics would be inefficient.
Authors, who have written less than $14$ documents ($0.01\%$ of the number of documents), are removed as part of preprocessing.
This removes $43$ out of $227$ authors, combining them into a single 'misc' author.
A total of $204$ documents are assigned to the 'misc' author.
\todo[inline]{figure out whether to use boxplots or histograms, and ref them.}

\begin{figure*}[ht]
	\centering
	\begin{subfigure}{0.45\textwidth}
		\centering
		\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/author_hist2_before.png}
		\caption{Before preprocessing}
		\label{fig:author_hist_before}
	\end{subfigure}
	\begin{subfigure}{0.45\textwidth}
		\centering
		\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/author_hist2_14.png}
		\caption{After preprocessing}
		\label{fig:auhtor_hist_after}
	\end{subfigure}

> 	\caption{Histogram over amount authors who have written certain number of documents, before and after preprocessing. Authors in the x-axis are grouped into 50 buckets.}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	\caption{Histogram over amount authors who have written certain number of documents, before and after preprocessing.
	Authors on the x-axis are grouped into 50 buckets.}
```
